# Determining aggregation propensity from proteomics data
## What does this project do?
This program will take in a list of proteins and will compute the aggregation propensity of the proteins in that list. It will do this by comparing the input list of protein to two published datasets which measured protein aggregation propensity in two different ways: 
1. Ciryam et al. (_Ciryam, Prajwal, et al. "Widespread aggregation and neurodegenerative diseases are associated with supersaturated proteins." Cell reports 5.3 (2013): 781-790._) computed the supersaturation score (SS) of all proteins in the human proteome. The program will compare the input list of proteins to the SS list published by Ciryam et al. and will output two results: (1) the average SS for the entire list and (2) all the proteins in the input list and their associated SS in descending order. This will be done for both the unfolded SS (SSu) and folded SS (SSf) (see technical notes). 
2. Jarzab et al. (_Jarzab, Anna, et al. "Meltome atlas—thermal proteome stability across the tree of life." Nature methods 17.5 (2020): 495-503._) measured the thermal stability of proteins using a method called thermal proteome profiling (TPP) and determined the "melting temperature" (Tm) of the entire proteome (see technical notes). The program will compare the input list of proteins to the TPP list published by Jarzab et al. and will output two results: (1) the average Tm for the entire list and (2) all the proteins in the input list and their associated SS in descending order.

## Technical notes
1. A protein's intrinsic aggregation propensity can be computed based on it's primary amino acid sequence. It was shown that intrinsic aggregation propensity and expression level are anticorelated; this is an evolutionary mechanism to prevent aggregation. Some proteins however do not follow this rule and are observed to be expressed higher than their intrinsic aggregation propensity would predict. These are termed super saturated (SS) proteins. Ciryam et al. calculated the SS for all proteins by combining their intrinsic aggregation propensity with their measured expression level. They did this both for the unfolded protein (SSu) and using a corrected intrinsic aggregation propensity for the folded protein structure (SSf).
2. TPP measures protein thermal stability by exposing cells to an increasing gradient of heat stress, and then performing mass spectrometry on the soluble proteome of the cells at each temperature. The "melting temperature" (Tm) is defined as the temperature at which 50% of the protein becomes insoluble in the cell. 
